To predict the 199 unknown species with the known 89 species using Logistic regression (GLM)

Dataset: Given dataset is the Microtus dataset which consists of 288 skulls from 2 species, multiplex and subterraneus with skull Length, skull width and skull height. Out of which 89 species are known and 199 species are unknown. 

Approach: The dataset is given in the form of 3 excel files which are multiplex, subterraneus and unknown. Firstly, data is imported, and the data is splitted into known species data which is training data and unknown species data which is testing data. The training data is then cleaned by removing the missing values because presence of missing values can cause model to be less accurate. I renamed the column names for the easy analysis. Then, I plotted the boxplot to check for the outliers present in training data. There is one outlier in width and two outliers in height and Length variables. Then, I used quantile function to remove outliers in the training data and I again plotted the boxplot to make sure there are no outliers. Then, I created a variable ID_Binary binary variable where it takes 1 for subterraneus and 0 for multiplex for prediction of data. I used glm binomial family model using all variables which are Length, Height, and Width to fit the training data. Then, I tested the model with training data and created a confusion matrix for calculating accuracy and achieved the accuracy of 87%. Then, I used K cross validation to calculate accuracy and I got it as 90% which is almost same as the glm model accuracy. This accuracy tells that this is a good model to test the testing data. After I used this model to predict the species in the testing data, I got 119 species of multiplex and 80 species of subterreneus. 

Conclusion: The conclusion is after using this model, there are 119 species of multiplex and 80 species of subterreneus. 

